Christianity it is really easy for
intellectuals to sit around and pat
themselves in the back and feel like the
era of Christianity's power is broken
and discarded until you have kids my
ex-wife has a PhD in anthropology and
she's half Jewish and when she was
married to me she was highly motivated
to raise our child our then hypothetical
future child with absolutely no
celebration of Christmas today I am the
divorced parent of a five-year-old
daughter who has four years of memory of
Christmas being celebrated it's a
problem what's that you say
but even the most hardcore intellectual
atheists here on YouTube who posture as
some kind of I know extreme secularists
who are out to transform study even they
say that the celebration of Christmas is
just no problem at all why it says
secular as the American Constitution or
um taking your vows on a stack of Bibles
when you go to court it's perfectly
secular there's no problem with that
there's no problem with Santa Claus
Santa Claus isn't in the Bible these
same people these secularists and
atheists would never make the same
excuses for raising their children with
the annual celebration of a Muslim
holiday if you actually look at some of
the Hindu and Buddhist holidays what
actually happens in them thinking of a
certain Hindu celebration in Nepal that
involves slaughtering and sacrificing
large numbers of cattle
we still have that going on in some
sects of Judaism also you might be
surprised at the durability of animal
sacrifice as a concept in the 21st
century you wouldn't have your children
participating in any of the
supernaturals moreover whereas it is
genuinely disputed and contested today
whether or not Jesus Christ ever was an
historical figure or if his origins are
entirely mythological whereas it is
disputed whether or not Moses ever was
an historically real person or if he's
just a mythological figure there's no
debate about Adolf Hitler and there are
certain segments of society who
celebrate the birthday of Adolf Hitler
there are still segments of society who
celebrate and revere Joseph Stalin Mao
Zedong Lenin your choice why why would
you want to keep your child separate
from all of these these holidays all
these celebrations have any of them
killed as many people as Christianity do
any of them really have as much blood on
their hands as long a record of genocide
as Christianity and yet I find here on
YouTube especially there's a spirit of
really kind of phony celebration and
self-congratulation that Christianity
has been beaten that the war for the
future of hearts and minds in the
decadent West has already been won have
you tried to explain to your kid why
they don't have a Christmas tree and the
other kids do it's easy if you're Jewish
part of my family is Jewish part of my
family is not let me tell you something
a lot of Jewish people are raised with a
very simple very fundamental myth being
inculcated into them from an early age
the reason why you don't get a Christmas
tree they say is because you're better
than the other kids because you were
born special because you're one of the
chosen people there are kids who grow up
Hindu let's just say specifically
they're Brahma
Hindus from northern India they get told
there's a really good reason why you
don't get a Christmas tree and that's
because your ancestors go back to this
incredibly early period of time when the
Vedas were first recited in ancient
Sanskrit and that the Vedas are these
magical texts that if they're not
recited literally the world will end the
Sun will not rise they're so fundamental
to the fabric of the universe and the
concept of karma and everything else
there are Buddhists I think fewer and
fewer today who grow up with a
traditional cosmology that likewise
makes the preservation of Buddhist texts
and customs and rituals seem like the
most important thing in the world or at
least a valid excuse for why you don't
have presents under the Christmas tree
like other kids and the cold hard truth
of rational nihilistic atheism is that
there are no excuses the Christmas tree
has to be thrown on the dustbin of
history along with circumcision burning
witches conversion by the sword so many
barbaric regretable traditions that
existed and were respected for centuries
or millennia as the case may be they
just have to be looked upon now as
errors and the challenge is not
destructive but creative because if you
have a child you're not trying to
replace Christianity with nothing your
challenge is to replace Christianity
with something better and that's why it
is so much easier to raise a child
Buddhist and just replace Christianity
with Buddhism
is to raise a child as a skeptical
secular nihilistic atheist with an
appreciation for the importance of
history and the progress of science
there is no holiday for that there is no
Kwanzaa there is no simple substitution
where you can replace Christmas with
some other custom and I'm gonna tell you
straight I think that people like
Jacqueline Glenn are letting us down
here on YouTube I think that people like
the amazing atheist TJ Kirk are letting
us down here on YouTube they've really
participated in and even to some extent
created the social fiction that all you
need to do as an atheist to beat
Christianity is sit back and laugh is
sit back and point the finger and revel
in your own smug sense of intellectual
superiority and it's not enough you're
not just competing with the Christmas
tree you're competing with the Sistine
Chapel you're competing with the
assembled beauty and sculpture and works
of art and architectural accomplishments
and traditions and songs and poetry of
centuries and millennia and what are you
gonna replace it with what are you gonna
offer your own child that's better
it's the same thing it's an imperfect
comparison but it's in some ways the
same thing with veganism where you look
at the reality of a culture that's built
on meeting eat eating meat pardon me
eating meat wearing leather drinking cow
milk you can't just look at this
destructively as a destructive challenge
like you just want to destroy a factory
farming you have to look at this as a
creative challenge as something
productive we say I want to replace the
poisonous and cruel elements of this
culture with something that's really
better I'm in the process now of
inventing
a new holiday that I don't expect anyone
aside from my own children to ever
celebrate I'm taking on a strange grade
of challenge to prepare a series of
stories songs rituals puppet shows
whatever I can do to make it more
entertaining built around the life and
death and philosophy of Socrates and the
overall sense of importance of the brief
period of history when Athens really
represented the progress of democracy
and to some extent human reason and
rationality however flawed the point of
this exercise is not to represent Athens
as Paradise Lost but let me tell you
something Socrates was a real person
unlike Jesus he's not just a myth and
Socrates represents something he
certainly raises important questions
that I think are more meaningful to
atheists and skeptical people today in
contrast to Jesus in contrast to Moses
and in contrast to odious political
figures who are celebrated by different
you know political extremists so much
like religious extremists still this
time and you know I don't feel I'm
stepping into the shoes of anyone else
who's who's made this effort before
that's the that's the weirdest thing if
you come on the internet and say you
want to start a new fad no idea you'd
normally you have a lot of precedents to
look around at and there are all these
people who've been engaged in all these
different you know pseudo movements you
know and some of these people is so cold
you know I don't know skeptical
intellectuals they have cruises and
dinner parties and fundraisers and you
know they make up these little monikers
to promote their lecture tours and their
books there's all this smug
self-satisfied celebration going on and
I don't see that basic creativity
I don't see that challenge being met
creatively for the full life-cycle of
people in the 21st century that includes
birth and childhood and retirement and
old age and death ultimately when you
get buried or when you get put into a
sack and I don't know cremated rolled
down a hill thrown to the ocean whatever
whatever it is you want let my own
father my own father wasn't just an
atheist he was a communist extremist and
in a lot of ways my philosophy is a
reaction against that I rejected
communism and when it came time for him
to die he had years the planet you know
we got the medical diagnosis and he
burned out slowly so he had years to
plan it it blew my mind when my mother
told me he was he was in a in a church
cemetery his lifelong dream was to burn
down the church literally and
figuratively
he supported he supported Mao Zedong
when Mao Zedong burned down the Buddhist
temples in Tibet he applauded that and
supported that and said yes that's what
he thought there should be more of
planet Earth and here he is with his
bones buried in the earth in a church
cemetery with his last rites spoken by a
priest who my mother was assured me was
my mother assured me he was a real nice
guy this particular praise start
thinking about the future guys I mean
death is the easiest part to handle
because you know dead men tell no tales
you think it's harmless
to raise your kid celebrating Christmas
then why don't you think it's harmless
to take them down to the mosque and
raise them with Islam why don't you
think it's harmless to raise them in in
Hinduism you think it's harmless because
it's familiar
you think it's harmless because the
constant barrage of advertising has made
this particular religion its particular
superstitions lies cultural values
irrational and entities seem so familiar
that you think you can pass them on to
the next generation without harm
but just as invisibly as circumcision
has pervaded our whole culture and
society the harm is all the more real
because it's ubiquitous and the creative
struggle ahead of us is all the more
difficult and terrible because the vast
majority of people are blind to what it
is we're struggling against